# messierHunter
A python script that generates a Messier logbook in latex format
The idea of putting together this logbook came in to my mind after I observed my third Messier object in the night sky and I realized that it would be very hard to observe all the Messier objects without using a more structured approach. So the project for 2020 would be to observe all the Messier objects for a minimum of three times and each time to record the different parameters that might affect my observations like the seeing, the difficulty, the gear that I am using etc.  When I looked around in the Internet for a (free) messier logbook, I found out that none of them could possibly cover my needs (or at least some of them could partially cover them). So to describe my needs, I mean I need to have some informations about the object I am observing like its magnitude, its type and perhaps its location in the sky. I would also need a handy chart that would help me  locate each Messier object in the night sky and finally I would like to know what I am about to see through my scope in order to have a successful attempt. The most important thing I need is to have all these bind together for all Messier objects in a spiral logbook.  So I started writing this book in python (yes you read well in python) by using the pylatex library to generate the latex code and then  I compiled it to the logbook ythat you now read. 
At the beginning of the book you will find for sky maps for each season of year showing the messier objects that are best to observe per season. Then, a list of 110 pages is following with each page  to be an input log for each Messier object based on the specs I discussed. At the bottom of the page there is some space extra  left for notes as well!   
If you decide to use this little logbook I hope that it will help you with your observasions as much as I hope it will help me.   

The Messier Database was taken from  www.astro-tom.com
The Messier object images were taken from http://astropixels.com/
The Star charts were taken from https://freestarcharts.com
The cover image was taken from http://www.messier.seds.org/
